# BonaFideSimulator

Neural systems consists of two types of units: excitatory and inhibitory neurons. These two groups can be further subdivided according to their morphology, electrophysiology and molecular composition, but at the most basic level they are units that cause their postsynaptic targets to either depolarize (excitatory neurons) or to hyperpolarize (inhibitory neurons). 

We propose to investigate the curious feedback loops that emerge in networks of inhibitory and excitatory neurons in a sensory circuit. The first feedback loop is how the activity of functionally specialized excitatory neurons recruits widely-tuned inhibition and how this inhibitory feedback shapes the activity of the neural circuit. If the brain consisted only of excitatory neurons it would be subject to run-away excitation, where the activity of the recurrent circuit would be exponentially amplified. Inhibition serves to stabilize the activity of neuronal networks and allows for selective amplification of particular sensory-induced activity profiles.

Secondly, we are interested in how the activity patterns of neural circuits influence the synaptic connectivity matrix when the network is endowed with learning rules. We can study Hebbian, anti-Hebbian, homeostatic scaling and inhibitory plasticity rules. Activity patterns shape the connectivity between neurons, and the states of the synapses in turn influences the activity patterns. This bi-directional causality is difficult to disentangle using only experiments, because we don’t have a way to measure plasticity dynamics on a large-scale. 

Our strategy for studying these questions is to combine simulations with real data. We inject real activity patterns from excitatory and inhibitory neurons into rate-based neurons and further endow the network with well-studied plasticity rules. We use an open data set with more than 10,000 cortical neurons recorded from the mouse V1 when the mouse was either in the dark, exposed to 2800 natural images or patterns of white noise. Our motive for injecting real data into a simulated circuit endowed with learning rules is to understand how the firing statistics of real neurons shape the weight dynamics of synapses. 
